Welcome back everyone to part three of our Flast log in project in part 3.
We're going to do the heavy duty lifting of actually setting up all our views and our app pie.
So those are going to be the actual functions that connect our forms to our templates and then we'll
finish off by setting up the html template files that connect to each of those views.
Let's get started.
OK here I am located in my apt PI file as a reminder this app that PI file is located at the same level
as my project folder so it's not actually inside my project.
It's at the same level as it let's begin with all of our imports.
We'll start by importing from my project.
Will say import the app and our database and then from flask.
I'm going to import what things will say render template redirects request your L4 flash and abort.
So a couple of things you haven't seen before and then also save from flask.
Log in.
We're going to import a couple of things loggin user log in required and then log out user and essentially
these are going to be things that we can easily Duckery our normal view functions with then from my
project thought models.
Import user and then from my project thought forms are going to import that log in form as well as that
registration form and then finally we'll need to do some security checks.
So save from works security
import generate password hash and check password hash.
Lots of imports there.
You can always copy and paste from our solution files or our notes I should say.
And we're can start off of the home view that's going to be easiest to set up on say app that route
and go directly to the home page.
We'll call this view home and I'm going to return render template and I'll return the home.
H Tim L.
So we'll set up the HVM l files kind of as we go along here.
So first off now that we set up home team let's come over here to home each time.
Begin to fill it out.
But in order to do that I'm going to need to fill out my base h tim l file so I'll start off by typing.
H Tim L and get that autofill there and then inside of the head.
I'm going to link everything I need for bootstrap so I'm going to copy and paste this.
You can copy and paste this from our notes or from the bootstrap file or site.
So here are the links to bootstrap and then inside of this body all have a nav bar so say unordered
list.
Where the class is is equal to NAV and then inside of this list I have a list item and that list items
class is going to be equal to.
Now of Dasch link and we're going to have this be the home page.
So we're going to say home and here we're going to say that the H ref for it is equal to your L for
home.
That way we basically have a button all the way on the left hand side of our NAV bar that when you click
on it it says home and it links you to that home view right now.
That's all I'm going to put in.
We do have more to fill out here but I will leave it blank for now and let's just set up our blocks
so say block contents and there we go later on I have a few more things to put in the nav bar.
But that's all we're going to say for right now.
And then we're to come to our home l and set it up so say extends from that base each time L5 we're
just playing with well set up the content block and then we'll start filling it in.
I'll go ahead and put this in a jumbo tron div..
Obviously that styling choice is up to you.
And then right now I'm going to leave this just blank.
So what I want to do in order to fill out my base HVM further as well as my home team further is set
up my actual log interviews so we will be back to fill each team out base each time on a homemade team.
We're going to leave them kind of half finished right now and come back to that pie and begin working
on those log and.
That way it makes more sense when we actually begin to set up the other views.
So the other view I'm going to set up is going to be a view that welcomes the user after they've logged
in.
So we'll say forward slash welcome Whoops.
Actually not Colin because that's the decorator.
And then I going to add one more decorator here and I'm going to say log in required.
So what that does is it makes sure that the user in order to see this view they have to be logged in
and the actual view.
I'm going to call it welcome underscore user.
And that's going to render the template.
So I'm going to say return render template.
And remember we have that welcome underscore user the H team l file.
So let's explain quickly what's going on here.
Basically a really similar view to our home page.
It's rendering a template except in this case we've added a decorator here called the log required that
Quader.
Which means if you're not logged in and you try to visit this HTL page you're basically going to get
redirected to the log in page and they'll be a message something like hey you have to log in.
So that's how real web sites work.
If you're trying to access a page that you're not allowed to it's it's somehow connected to a requirement
to log in.
And in our case we can do that quite easily with flask log ins logging required decorator.
So that's doing a ton of heavy lifting for us in the backend which is awesome.
So we're gonna save that and since we mentioned welcome user team Well let's go ahead and start filling
it out a little bit.
So we'll come over here to welcome user each team El and this one we can actually do right now completely.
Is not really going to be that much of it.
We're just going to extend from base HVM el.
And then I will say block content's all set up my class have to be a jumbotron and here I'm just going
to say contrats you are logged in OK and that's actually the end of Volcom user that's all it's going
to say.
So if you're not logged in you're not going to be able to see this message of congressional logged in
if you are log then you're going to see this as the welcome page for you.
So now it's come back to our app that PI file.
So we still need to finish off homes team as well as the base HTL template.
But welcome user that template is now done for us.
So now we're going to do is start setting up our log in views.
So those are the two biggest views I'm going to do one more view before we actually handled the registration
and loggin view and that's the log out view.
So I'm just going to route this two forward slash log out.
So if the user wants to log out they can come to this page and log out in order to see this you should
be logged in.
So we're going to also say log in required which kind of makes sense you can't log out if you're not
logged in and we're going to call this view log out and here we're going to say log out user call that
functions or remember log out user scroll back up here.
I imported this from a flask log in.
So this is all automatically done for us.
Oh we need to do is import that and call log out user.
And then I can flash the message you logged out or you've been logged out whatever you want to flash
the user.
And then I'm going to return them on when to redirect them to the home page.
So say you're l4.
OK so that's the logo.
Now all that's left is to set up our log in and register views.
These are the most complicated so we're going to need a lot of room for them.
We'll start off with the log in view so say app route and so take us to the log in page.
And because there is a form on this page in order to log in we're going to say that the methods are
get and post and then we'll set up our log in to view and this will be pretty similar to what we've
done in the past.
We're going to set up that log in a form and then we'll say if form validate on submit we'll just grab
the user from our user models table so as say a variable user is equal to user query.
The filter by and I'm going to filter by their e-mail supplied will say email is equal to form the e-mail
data.
It will grow the first user off of that since emails are unique.
So we grab that user based off the email they provided for their log in and then we're going to say
if user check password remember that the user model if we come back here two models that apply we have
a check password of mess method off a user object.
So that's what I'm calling right here the check password is the one we set up in our models that pi
file will say if user check password and then we're going to provide the password from the form a form
of password that data Elsi and user is not None.
So what this does is it basically checks that a user was actually supplied and the password is correct.
So we have this part which is verifying that the password is correct and this part actually saying hey
there was a user supplied because maybe the person tries to log in to a user it doesn't exist.
So then this would return None.
So that's what this is checking for.
So assuming that we do have a user and they provided the right password then we're ready to log them
in.
And lucky for us we can do that by simply saying log in user and then passing in that user.
If you're wondering where this logon user function came from we imported it back appear just like we
imported log out user.
So logging user simple import from flask a log in and hopefully now you get the idea that Flast log
in is making this whole thing really simple for us through just a simple calls of decorator's and some
importing of functions.
All you need to know is really when to put them in.
So now that we've locked in our user what we can do is the following we can flash them a message saying
logged in successfully.
Now if the user was trying to visit a page that required a log in what we can do is we can save that
as next.
So I'm going to say next is equal to request args gets next.
Now what happens is in the initial request for instance if a user was trying to access the welcome user
and the logon was required.
Flask saves that actual request for that page as next.
So we're actually grabbing it from the request.
So basically your user hasn't logged in yet.
They're trying to access a page or they need to be logged and such as that welcome user page flask on
the back and saves that as their next page.
And then it redirects them to this log in form and then assuming they successfully logged in then we
have and we're going to request.
What was that next page they wanted to go to and it is a legitimate page if they didn't just go directly
to the log in form.
So I'll say if next is done or not next zero is equal to a forward slash.
So they were just saying hey if we're going to check if that next exists otherwise we'll go to the welcome
page
we'll say next is equal to your l4.
Welcome user.
And if that doesn't happen to trigger then we just say return your or return the redirect for next OK.
So again this next that's holding in their request what their page was going to be.
However if it was done or it wasn't on this domain that was going to redirect them to go back to the
welcome user page.
So once we've done that we set up the next they're going to be the next one they require or welcome
user than we're going to redirect them to that and then to actually show this page the first time around
we're going to return render template for loggin h tim l l pass in the form that's form.
OK so a lot of stuff going on there.
I want to quickly review this.
I'm setting up my log in view.
I create a log in a form and checking the form is valid on submission.
Basically grabbing that user based on the email I'm checking hey does that user actually exist.
So is the user not none.
And was the password correct.
If that's all true that I going to log them in or tell them hey logged in successfully annoyed to grab
what their actual requested page was.
So again this next That's only something if they were trying to access a page that they had to be logged
into view such as the welcome user page it's actually going to be none.
If they went directly to the logon page.
OK.
So if next happens to be none then I'm just going to say OK send them straight to the welcome user page.
If that's not the case then I'm going to redirect that to the page we're trying to access in the beginning.
OK.
Then in order for us to actually see this views as the beginning we're going to say return render a
template for the log in page and let me quickly make sure that me in the station is correct here.
This return rendered template should be lined up with this iframe here.
So just keep that in mind.
And remember you can always copy and paste from our notes.
Last thing you want to set up is our register of view.
It's going to come down here and set that up.
Let me zoom back in here.
And then once you finish setting up a register view in the next lecture we'll finish off the HTML files.
But this one is a little bit simpler.
We're just going to route them to the register page.
So this is assuming they haven't actually registered before.
We're going to have a form here so we'll say get post the register.
We'll set up a registration form.
Remember we already imported that.
So we'll see an instance of the registration form.
And again if form validate on submit then we'll just create a user object so a user is equal to user
where the email is the form email they provided.
So form email data the user name for that new user is the form user name data that they provide in and
the password is going to be the deform password data that they provided.
Remember on the back end our model isn't actually going to say this password it's going to hash it for
us.
Once we've done that we created that user and we just registered him.
We're going to add them to our actual table.
So say add this user and then commit those changes and then will flash the message saying thanks for
registration
or whatever you want to say.
And then once they're registered we'll just return a redirect to the logon page.
So say you're all for logging and in order to see the for the first time around we'll say return render
a template register the HMO and we'll pass and form equal to form.
So on the actual template they'll be the form there and at the bottom of all this we'll just say if
name is equal to Main take the app run it and debug it obviously in production you would insert debug
equal to true.
All right.
We finished the app that pi file this is by far the largest file that we're working with.
Let's see a really quick review in the next lecture will finish off our templates so appear.
We did all our imports specifically the ones that you should be paying attention to.
Are these flask loggin ones so lots of useful functions.
The user and log out user and also a nice decorator that can quickly add logging requirements to any
view just by decorating it.
Then we imported the user model the log in the registration form we created as well as some security
and.
Looking back now I don't think we actually use these generate password or check password hash so you
can probably just ignore these.
I was thinking we would have to generate the password hash ourselves but our user model actually did
that so we didn't actually end up using those.
OK then we have our home page our welcome user page of flogging required our log out page logons also
required to log out and we call this simple function log out the user and then we have log in here.
Sets up the log and form checks to see that the right user was done.
And then we log them in redirect to the page that they were looking for or we register them and create
a new user.
OK then the next lecture will finish off this project by setting up the templates.
We'll see if.